{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\b Level\tab Prof\tab Features\tab\tab\tab Toxicity\tab\tab Signs?\par
1st\tab +2\tab\b0 Witcher Swords, \tab\tab\b -\par
\tab\tab\b0 Witcher Medallion,\par
\b\tab\tab\b0 Witcher Senses\b\par
2nd\tab +2\tab\b0 Witcher Potions\tab\b\tab 2\par
3rd\tab +2\tab\b0 Witcher Signs\b\tab\tab\tab 2\par
4th\tab +2\tab\b0 A/S Improvement\tab\tab\b 3\par
5th\tab +3\tab\b0 Extra Attack\tab\tab\tab\b 3\par
6th\tab +3\tab\b0 Enhanced Witchers Sense,\tab\b 3\par
\tab\tab\b0 Witchers Prey\b\par
7th\tab +3\tab\b0 Potion Improvement\b\tab\tab 4\par
8th\tab +3\tab\b0 A/S Improvement,\tab\tab\b 4\par
\tab\tab\b0 Sign Improvement\b\par
9th\tab +4\tab -\tab\tab\tab\tab 4\par
10th\tab +4\tab\b0 Extra Attack (2)\b\tab\tab\tab 5\par
11th\tab +4\tab -\b0\tab\tab\tab\tab\b 5\par
12th\tab +4\tab\b0 A/S Improvement,\tab\tab\b 5\par
\tab\tab\b0 Potion Improvement\b\par
13th\tab +5\tab\b0 Sign Improvement\b\tab\tab 6\par
14th\tab +5\tab -\tab\tab\tab\tab 6\par
15th\tab +5\tab\b0 Extra Attack (3)\b\tab\tab\tab 6\par
16th\tab +5\tab\b0 A/S Improvement\tab\tab\b 7\par
17th\tab +6\tab\b0 Potion Improvement,\tab\b\tab 7\par
\tab\tab\b0 Sign Improvement\b\par
18th\tab +6\tab -\tab\tab\tab\tab 8\par
19th\tab +6\tab\b0 A/S Improvement\tab\tab\b 8\par
20th\tab +6\tab\b0 Master Witcher\b\tab\tab\tab 9\par
\par
Class Features\b0\par
\b Hit Points\par
\b0 Hit Dice: 1d10 per Witcher level\par
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution modifier\par
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your Constitution modifier per Witcher level after 1st\par
\par
\b Proficiencies\b0\par
Armor: Light armour, medium armour\par
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons\par
Tools: Alchemist kit\par
Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity\par
Skills: Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Survival\par
\par
\b Equiment\par
\b0 You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:\par
(a) scale mail or (b) leather armor\par
two Witcher's longswords (one steel, one silver)\par
(a) a dungeoneer\rquote s pack or (b) an explorer\rquote s pack\par
alchemist kit\par
witcher's medallion\par
\b\par
Witcher Swords\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0 Steel for men, when wielding a witchers sword made of steel (or other similar metals) and no other weapons, you gain +2 to damage rolls vs humanoids.\par
Silver for monsters, when wielding a witchers sword made of silver and no other weapons, you gain +2 to damage rolls vs all non-humanoid creatures.\par
A Witchers sword is a specialised tool, forged to the highest of standards and enchanted with magical runes, it requires a specialist smith to forge a Witchers blade. As such, the time needed to craft, and the cost to buy a Witchers blade are considerably higher than their standard counterparts. The length of time and cost are at the DMs discretion.\par
The magical runes inscribed onto a Witchers sword can be used to attach a magical effect to the weapon.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Witchers swords share the same stats as a standard Longsword.\par
Additionally, switching between one-handed and two-handed on a Witcher sword requires no action or bonus action. (Discuss with Jamie about raising damage at levels.)\b\par
\par
Witcher Medallion\par
\b0 (Discuss with Jamie)\par
\b\par
Witcher Senses\par
\b0 You gain darkvision if your race did not already provide it, increase your movement speed by 5ft and gain can add twice your proficiency modifier to Insight, Investigation, Perception and Survival checks.\par
\par
\b Witcher Potions\b0\par
Starting from 2nd level you gain the ability to concoct Witcher Potions. These potions require materials gathered from monster corpses and can be crafted during a short rest. Due to the monstrous ingredients, Witchers potions are highly toxic and pose a high risk to non-Witchers.\par
Each potion a Witcher imbibes inflicts them with 1 point of toxicity (with the exception of the white honey potion). Whenever a Witcher gains a toxicity point past their toxicity limit they must make a con saving throw of 10, on a pass they gain the effect of the Witcher potion, on a fail they are poisoned for 1d6 turns per toxicity point over their max. When a Witcher exceeds or begins a round with a toxicity number equal to or greater than half their toxicity limit (rounded down) they must make a con saving throw of 10, on a pass they suffer no effects, on a save they suffer a point of exhaustion.\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0 Non-Witchers who imbibe a Witcher potion must make a con saving throw of 10, on a pass they gain the basic effect of the potion, on a fail they are poisoned for 1d6 turns.\par
Your toxicity limit is listed on the class feature table. Toxicity points are lost after short or long rest, or after imbibing the white honey potion.\par
The list of Witcher potions available to concoct are detailed in the Witcher Potion list at the bottom of this guide.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The strenght of your potions increases when you reach the 7th level in this class, when you reach the 12th level in this class, and again when you reach the 17th level in this class.\par
\par
\b Signs    \b0 (Talk with Jamie about limiting sign use)\b\par
\b0 Starting at 3rd you gain access to signs. Due to their magical resistances and mutations, Witchers are unable to harness the full power of magic. Signs are a simple magic spell that Witchers can cast using hand gestures, they require you to have at least one hand free to cast as well as having a somatic component.\par
Signs are cast as a bonus action.\par
The list of Signs available to cast are detailed in the Signs list at the bottom of this guide.\par
The strenght of your Signs increases when you reach the 8th level in this class, when you reach the 13th level in this class, and again when you reach the 18th level in this class.\par
\par
\b Ability Score Improvement\b0\par
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can\rquote t increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.\par
Using the optional feats rule, you can forgo taking this feature to take a feat of your choice instead.\par
\par
\b Extra Attack\b0\par
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.\par
The number of attacks increases to three when you reach the 10th level in this class and to four when you reach the 15th level in this class.\par
\par
\b Enhanced Witchers Sense\b0\par
At 6th level, your Witchers senses improve. You gain the ability to peer at a creature and magically discern how best to hurt it. As an action, choose one creature you can see within 60 feet of you. You immediately learn whether the creature has any damage immunities, resistances, or vulnerabilities and what they are. \par
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all expended uses of it when you finish a long rest.\par
\b\par
Witchers Prey\par
\b0 Starting at 6th level, you can focus your ire on one foe, increasing the harm you inflict on it. As a bonus action, you designate one creature you can see within 60 feet of you as the target of this feature. The first time each turn that you hit that target with a weapon attack, it takes an extra 1d6 damage from the weapon.\par
This benefit lasts until you finish a short or long rest. It ends early if you designate a different creature.\par
\par
\b Master Witcher\par
\b0 Upon reaching the 20th level in this class you have achieved the rank of Master Witcher. The number of monsters you have faced during your adventure has left you unwaverable, you gain immunity to the frightened condition.\par
Additionaly you have perfected your combat style during your travels,  you may now use your attack action to make a melee attack against 4 enemies in your movement range. You do not provoke opportunity attacks against yourself when moving in between targets. You make separate attack rolls against each enemy, and should they hit, they induce 1d6 bleeding damage at the start of their turns. This lasts for 1d4 turns, or until they take an action to staunch the wound. This action can be used twice, it's charges are regained upon taking a short or long rest.\par
\par
\b List of Witcher Potions\b0\par
Swallow: If consumed, heals for 1d4 + your Constitution modifier. At 7th level this potion also heals you at the end of your turn for 4 turns. At 12th level the healing increases to 2d4 + your Constitution modifier, then at 17th level the healing increases to 2d6 + your constitution modifier.\par
Cat: If consumed, increases your Darkvision out to a range of 90 feet for 1 hour. However, the potion makes you susceptible to sunlight, and you have disadvantage on all attack rolls and ability checks that require sight while in bright light while under the duration of this potion. At 7th level this potion allows you to now discern colour with your darkvision. At 12th level the disadvantage in sunlight is removed. At 17th level the range is increased to 120ft.\par
Black Blood: \par
Killer Whale:\par
Full Moon: If consumed, you gain 1d8 temporary hit points. This increases by 1d8 at 7th, 12th, and 17th level.\par
Tawny Owl:\par
Thunderbolt: \par
White Honey:\par
\par
}
 